Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A programming language is a computer language programmers use to develop software programs, scripts, or other sets of instructions for computers to execute.



What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (Javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.




What is IDE?
A.
A Java IDE (for Integrated Development Environment) is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs. Many IDEs provide features like syntax highlighting and code completion, which help the user to code more easily.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
NetBeans.
IntelliJ IDEA.
Eclipse.
Jdeveloper.
Dr. Java.
BlueJ.
jCreator.


Explain the entire java life cycle.


There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:

Editing the program
Compiling the source code
Executing the byte code
First, you will start with typing the program in a text-editor (ex: notepad, notepad++, wordpad, textedit etc). After completing editing of the program, we have to save the file. While saving the file you should remember that the file must be saved with .java extension. For example, let’s think that I had written a Java program which contains a single class Sample (more on classes in future posts). It is a good convention to save the file with the name of the class. So, as per my example, the file will be saved as Sample.java.

Second step is compilation. The name of the Java compiler is javac. The input to the compiler is Java source code which is available in Sample.java. The output of the compiler is machine independent or platform independent code which is known as bytecode. The file which is generated after compilation is .class file. As per my example, the bytecode file will be Sample.class.

Last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Input to the JVM is bytecode and output is machine code (0’s and 1’s) which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.


what is class?

A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.


What is object?

An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
public static void main(String[] args) Java main method is the entry point of any java program. Its syntax is always public static void main(String[] args) .

Why main is static?
Java program's main method has to be declared static because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined. ... Without having declared main method static , your program will successfully compile but won't execute and report error at run time.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?

Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy, which is present in java. lang package. All predefined classes and user-defined classes are the subclasses from Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?

Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?

Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.


what is Access Specifier?

The public keyword is an access modifier, meaning that it is used to set the access level for classes, attributes, methods and constructors.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.

Object-oriented programming (OOP) refers to a type of computer programming (software design) in which programmers define the data type of a data structure, and also the types of operations (functions) that can be applied to the data structure.



Inheritance:

When one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object, it is known as inheritance. It provides code reusability. It is used to achieve runtime polymorphism.


Polymorphism:

If one task is performed in different ways, it is known as polymorphism. For example: to convince the customer differently, to draw something, for example, shape, triangle, rectangle, etc.

In Java, we use method overloading and method overriding to achieve polymorphism.

Another example can be to speak something; for example, a cat speaks meow, dog barks woof, etc.

Abstraction:

Hiding internal details and showing functionality is known as abstraction. For example phone call, we don't know the internal processing.

In Java, we use abstract class and interface to achieve abstraction.


Encapsulation:

Binding (or wrapping) code and data together into a single unit are known as encapsulation. For example, a capsule, it is wrapped with different medicines.

A java class is the example of encapsulation. Java bean is the fully encapsulated class because all the data members are private here.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?

A java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages. Package in java can be categorized in two form, built-in package and user-defined package. There are many built-in packages such as java, lang, awt, javax, swing, net, io, util, sql etc.

First, the package with no name. Second, the java.lang package. And third, the current package (the package in which the current file is defined).


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.

An API is a set of definitions and protocols for building and integrating application software. API stands for application programming interface.




Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?

java does not support multiple inheritances through classes but through the interfaces, we can use multiple inheritances . No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overriding of methods when both extended class have a same method name.
What is method overloading and when it happens?


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.

An exception object is an instance of an exception class. It gets created and handed to the Java runtime when an exceptional event occurred that disrupted the normal flow of the application. This is called “to throw an exception” because in Java you use the keyword “throw” to hand the exception to the runtime.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?

Static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods, blocks and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class. Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?

final keyword is used in different contexts. First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class. Following are different contexts where final is used. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?

The final keyword can be used with class method and variable. A final class cannot be instantiated, a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be reassigned.

The finally keyword is used to create a block of code that follows a try block. A finally block of code always executes, whether or not an exception has occurred. Using a finally block allows you to run any cleanup-type statements that you just wish to execute, despite what happens within the protected code.

The finalize() method is used just before object is destroyed and can be called just prior to object creation.

What is a constructor ?

Constructor is a block of code that initializes the newly created object. A constructor resembles an instance method in java but it's not a method as it doesn't have a return type. ... Constructor has same name as the class and looks like this in a java code.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?

A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same. You can define as many constructors as you need. When a Java class contains multiple constructors, we say that the constructor is overloaded (comes in multiple versions).


If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?



What is "this" keyword in java ?

Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. ... It can be used to refer instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor. It can be passed as an argument in the method call.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?

super is a keyword. It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class. Private methods of the super-class cannot be called. Only public and protected methods can be called by the super keyword.
super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?

Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is a engine that provides runtime environment to drive the Java Code or applications. It converts Java bytecode into machines language.


Is JVM platform independent?

The JVM is not platform independent. ... The JVM is used to both translate the bytecode into the machine language for a particular computer, and actually execute the corresponding machine-language instructions as well. Without the JVM, you can't run a Java application.

What version of java are you using?



What is JAR stand for ?

A JAR (Java ARchive) is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?

JDK is Java Development Kit and JVM is Java Virtual Machine. JDK contains JVM and whole other tools for java development inside it. JVM converts bytecode to machine.
 JVM is the heart of java programming language and provides platform independence.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?

JRE is the container, JVM is the content. Java Runtime Environment contains JVM, class libraries, and other supporting files. It does not contain any development tools such as compiler, debugger, etc. ... JRE = JVM + Java Packages Classes (like util, math, lang, awt, swing etc) + runtime libraries.

What is compile time and run time?

Runtime and compile time are programming terms that refer to different stages of software program development. Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable while Run-time is the instance where the executable is running. Compile-time checking occurs during the compile time.

What is heap?

The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated. The heap is created on virtual machine start-up.

How java manage it's memory?

The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory (this includes allocating memory from the Operating System (OS), managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects) and finally provides the runtime environment.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuider are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not, thats why StringBuilder is more faster than StringBuffer. String concat + operator internally uses StringBuffer or StringBuilder class.

What is Singleton class?

a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?

Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?

The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any instance of that class. A transient variable is a variable that can not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?

a while loop and do while loop is that while loop check condition before iteration of the loop. On the other hand, the do-while loop verifies the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?

A Java Enum is a type used specifically to represent sets of constants. A Java Enum can be used instead of static final int or String variables .

What is Iterator?

Iterator’ is an interface which belongs to collection framework. It allows us to traverse the collection, access the data element and remove the data elements of the collection.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?

Each Integer object can occupy 4 (or more) times the storage space as a primitive 'int', so if the extra capabilities aren't needed and your Java program must hold many (i.e., thousands or more) integer values in memory, consider using int instead of Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?



What is constructor chaining in Java?

Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object. Constructor chaining can be done in two ways: Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in same class.


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?

a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?

Just in time (JIT) is an inventory management method whereby materials, goods, and labor are scheduled to arrive or be replenished exactly when needed in the production process.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

Java Heap space is used by java runtime to allocate memory to Objects and JRE classes. Whenever we create any object, it's always created in the Heap space. Garbage Collection runs on the heap memory to free the memory used by objects that doesn't have any reference.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?


What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?



What is reflection in java and why is it useful?



what is multithreading in java?



What is the use of synchronization in Java?



What is Framework?



What are the testing Framework available in java?



Difference between jUnit and testNG?



What are the dependencies for this project?



what is dependency injection in java?



What is static binding and dynamic binding?











